# CS598KD Project - Multimodal LLM for Subject-Driven Image Editing

Our project tests out subject-driven imporvments in image editing though the use of multimodal large language models (LLMs) to see if it can perform better on maintaining subject identity and spatial accuracy in the edited outputs.

### Key Challenges
- Ensuring that the embeddings generated by LLaMA-VID are compatible with the encoder in the BLIP-Diffusion model.
- Evaluating how well the model preserves subject identity and manages spatial reasoning.

## Project Setup Instructions

#### 1. Clone the Repository
Clone this repository to your local machine:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/sreenidhi2002/CS598_LLM_for_Editing.git
cd CS598_LLM_for_Editing
```

#### 2. Setup instructions

- LLaMA-VID: The code for LLaMA-VID is available in the llama_vid directory. Ensure all necessary model weights and configurations are downloaded or set up as specified in the directory’s README or configuration files.

- BLIP-Diffusion: The BLIP-Diffusion code is located in the blip_diffusion directory. The additional setup steps are listed within this directory to ensure the model can run correctly.


### Running the Model
Set Up BLIP-Diffusion: Ensure that the BLIP-Diffusion model is installed and configured. Run inference with a sample image and text prompt to observe initial editing results and identify failure cases.

Alternative Embedding Model: Set up and integrate LLaMA-VID for generating embeddings compatible with BLIP-Diffusion. Test these embeddings to ensure compatibility and evaluate their effect on subject-driven image editing.

Testing: Use the DataLoaders to input images from both datasets and test the model’s performance on subject-driven editing tasks.

### Next Steps
Finalize embedding compatibility between LLaMA-VID and BLIP-Diffusion.
Benchmark model performance using both the DreamBooth and OpenImages datasets.
Evaluate editing accuracy for spatial reasoning and subject identity preservation.

### Contributors
- Mingjun Liu
- Yen-Chi Cheng
- Sreenidhi Vijayaraghavan
